Docs: Migration Tool and WSV Checker Use (#1412)
hyperledger/iroha: docs/source/maintenance/migration.rst

====================
Migration To RocksDB
====================

Iroha allows for using Postgres or Rocks Database.
You can use the option you prefer and if you want to switch -- there is an option for you.
**Just migrate your database!**
Here is how

How to migrate
==============

> After you built Iroha (or simply run it) after version Iroha 1.3 you already have the migration tool! 

Reviewer: @LiraLemur (cc @kuvaldini ) Are you sure about this statement? If we build according to instructions [here](https://iroha.readthedocs.io/en/develop/build/index.html#id8) then we will build only irohad binary, however to use migration tool we need to have separate binary

> After you built Iroha (or simply run it) after version Iroha 1.3 you already have the migration tool! 

Author: @kuvaldini we need you here, I don't know. That's what Ivan told me

> After you built Iroha (or simply run it) after version Iroha 1.3 you already have the migration tool! 

Reviewer 2: "You already have migration-tool as a separate executable"

Just run the ``irohad/migration-tool`` with the following flags:

- ``-block_store_path`` - specifies path to block store. Default: "/tmp/block_store"
- ``-export`` - exports block store to specified directory, default CWD. Use it to *reverse* migration to RocksDB (by exporting files from it).
- ``-force`` - use it to override blocks in RocksDB blockstore if it already exists. This might be very useful if the next step - checking the correctness of the migrated database - goes through with errors and you need to repeat the migration process. Default: false
- ``-rocksdb_path`` - specifies the path to RocksDB. Default: "rocks.db"

And your database is migrated! But that is not all.

> To make sure that your migration process has been successful, please then use the WSV check.

Reviewer: Probably yes. Also migration tool could be something like `iroha-migrate`. @kuvaldini if you agree about renaming please create an issue for that

> To make sure that your migration process has been successful, please then use the WSV check.

Reviewer 2: yes okay

> To make sure that your migration process has been successful, please then use the WSV check.

Author: I've already changed the names in this docs page to the suggested ones.

> To make sure that your migration process has been successful, please then use the WSV check.

Reviewer 2: Let me rename them first in my dedicated PR.

How to check WSV after the migration
====================================

> Run ``irohad/wsv_checker`` with the following flags: 

Author: irohad/wsv_checker - isn't it? I think that's what it was on the demo you showed me

- ``-pg_opt`` - specifies Postgres options line. It should be as in your configuration. Default: "dbname=iroha_default host=localhost port=5432 user=postgres password=postgres"

> - ``-rocksdb_path`` - specifies path to the RocksDB. Default: "rocks.db"

Author: I'll move the hint with --help above :D

> If the databases are the same, you will see Mr. Spock.

Reviewer: I don't know what is Mr. Spock. Maybe others will also be confused

> If the databases are the same, you will see Mr. Spock.

Author: @kamilsa  I mean, once you see a Mr. Spock, you know it's him. There is literally a dude there.

> If the databases are the same, you will see Mr. Spock.

Author: also added about the zero code

> If not, there will be the differences in the databases: the data on the left is what is indicated in the RocksDB and on the right -- what is in Postgres.

Reviewer 2: Comman will exit with nonzero code, differences are reported to console and full wsv of both DBs is dumped to corresponding files (see output). For future investigation use any difftool to see differences between wsvs.

> Вообще-то это никому нафиг не надо кроме тех кто это будет дэбажить.

Reviewer 2: Here is successful output
```
Reading rocksdb... in 7112ms
Reading postgres... in 5923ms
See detailed dumps in files rockdb.wsv and postgres.wsv
== VALIDATING ==
left is rocksdb, right is postgres
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▒▒▓▓██████████▓▓▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▓██████████████████▓▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒███████████▓▓▓███▓▓▓▓█▓░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓███████████████▓▓▓▓█████▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒████████▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓█▓░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒█████████▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░▒▒▒▒▓▓░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓▒▒░░░░▓▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▓█████████▓████▓▒▒▒▓▓▓▓▓▒▓▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▓▒▒░░░▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓████████▓█▓▓▒▓██▒▒▒▓▓▓▓▓▒▓▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▒▒▒▒▒░░▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓███████▓▓▒▒▒▒▓██▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓▒▒▒▒▒░░▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓███████▓▓▒▒████▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▓▒▒▒▒▒░▓▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒████████▓▓██████▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░████████████▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒███████▓▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░██████▓▓██▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓█████▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░▓██████▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░▒▓▓▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓███████▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒████████████▓▓▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░▒▒███████████▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▓░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░█▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░▒▒▒▒▓▓█████████▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓██▓░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░░█▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░▒▓█████████▓██████████████████▓▓▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░▒██▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒░░░░▒▒▒▒▓▓▒▒▒▒▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓█▓█████████████▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░░░▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▒░░░░▒▒▓▒▒▒░▒▒▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░░▒█▓▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▓░░░▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░░░
░░░░░░░░░░▒████▓▓▓▒▒▒▓▒░▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░░
░░░░░░░░░▒██████▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░░
░░░░░░░░▒██████▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░
░░░░░░░░██████▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▒▒▒▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░
░░░░░░░██████▓▓▓▒▓▓▒▒▓▓▒▒▒▓█▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░░
░░░░░▒█████▓▓▓▓▓▓▓▓█▓▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▓█▓▒▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▓▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒▒░
~~~ WSV-s are same. Enjoy Iroha with RocksDB ~~~
```

Reviewer 2: Fail story
```
Reading rocksdb... in 6990ms
Reading postgres... in 5652ms
See detailed dumps in files rockdb.wsv and postgres.wsv
== VALIDATING ==
left is rocksdb, right is postgres
Role-s 'client' have different permissions: '00000000000001110100100100000100100100011010111010000' and '00000000000001110100100100000100100100011010111010011'
Wsv-s have different roles.
AssetQuantity-s 'xor#sora' have different quantity: '0.0' and '1234567.0'
Accounts 'superuser@bootstrap' have different assetsquantity
Domains 'bootstrap' have different accounts.
Wsv-s have different domains.
~~~ WSV-s DIFFER!!! ~~~
For future investigation use difftool on files rocksdb.wsv and postgres.wsv. Just like:
   diff <(tail -n+2 postgres.wsv) <(tail -n+2 rockdb.wsv)
```
Here command `tail -n+2` is to drop first line.

====================
Migration To RocksDB
====================

Iroha allows for using Postgres or Rocks Database.
You can use the option you prefer and if you want to switch -- there is an option for you.
**Just migrate your database!**
Here is how

.. hint:: Both migration tool and WSV checker have ``-help`` that you can call to check the available flags anytime.

How to migrate
==============

After you built Iroha (or simply run it) after version Iroha 1.3 you already have the migration tools as a separate executable! 

> Just run the ``irohad/iroha-migrate`` with the following flags:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Just run the ``iroha-migrate`` with the following flags:
```
Somewhere in note that by default iroha buildsystem stores binaries to `BUILD_DIR/bin/`

- ``-help`` - help
- ``-block_store_path`` - specifies path to block store. Default: "/tmp/block_store"
- ``-export`` - exports block store to specified directory, default CWD. Use it to *reverse* migration to RocksDB (by exporting files from it).

> - ``-force`` - use it to override blocks in RocksDB blockstore if it already exists. This might be very useful if the next step - checking the correctness of the migrated database - goes through with errors and you need to repeat the migration process. Default: false

Reviewer 2: -drop_state. this flag was renamed to be obvious and consistent with irohad

- ``-rocksdb_path`` - specifies the path to RocksDB. Default: "rocks.db"

> And your database is migrated! But that is not all.

Reviewer 2: Successful output looks like
```
Success! WSV in RocksDB was build.
Next step check consintancy with Postgres WSV using iroha_wsv_diff.
```
> It would be worth to hide example output into <spoiler\>

On error the tool will traditionally exit with non-zero.

To make sure that your migration process has been successful, please then use the WSV check.

How to check WSV after the migration
====================================

> Run ``irohad/wsv_check`` with the following flags: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run ``BUILD_DIR/bin/wsv_check`` with the following flags: 
```

- ``-help`` - help
- ``-pg_opt`` - specifies Postgres options line. It should be as in your configuration. Default: "dbname=iroha_default host=localhost port=5432 user=postgres password=postgres"
- ``-rocksdb_path`` - specifies path to the RocksDB. Default: "rocks.db"

> If the databases are the same, you will see Mr. Spock. Also, (if you are not much of a sci-fi fan) the exit code will be zero.

Reviewer 2: Let me add some code examples how the output looks like

If not, there will be the differences in the databases: the data on the left is what is indicated in the RocksDB and on the right -- what is in Postgres.
If there are differences, we would suggest to use the migration tool again with the ``-force`` flag.

> In case of discrepancies, the command will exit with a non-zero code. Differences will be reported to the console and full WSVs of both DBs will be dumped to corresponding files (the output in the form of ``postgres.wsv`` and ``rocksdb.wsv`` will be in the CWD). 

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if abbreviation CWD is obvious - let's decrypt 'current working directory (CWD)'.
